hello its ruvi and today I am going to
be giving you my top tips on going into
sick form so the number one request that
I've been getting for back-to-school
this year is for advice going into sick
form and so basically today I'm going to
be talking you through some of the
things that I wish I'd done at the
beginning of birth year 12 and SIA 13 so
it's a combination of things that I
learned in year 12 and also things that
I learned in year 13 number one one
thing I cannot stress enough is to
decide how you are going to make your
revision notes to the rest of the year
as soon as you possibly can when I say
this I mean are you gonna do flashcards
are you gonna learn from essays are you
gonna learn from tight notes written
notes mind maps this is so important to
figure out as early as you can not only
me but loads of my friends as well we'd
make for example like written notes the
beginning of the year and then when exam
season came we realized we're actually I
can't revise from this and then you'd
have to spend loads of time making more
revision resources if you experiment a
little bit before October half time yes
what glued can be high but it's not as
high as it's going to be the rest of the
year so this is the best time to figure
it out so at the beginning of this year
really try and find the revision method
that works best for you and keep in mind
that this might be different to the one
that worked for you at GCSE number two
don't just print off your specifications
from your exam board but you use them
from the beginning of the year when
you're learning a new topic have the
specification out beside you and make
sure that you are covering everything
that you need to cover it's really easy
for something to be covered in class and
if you actually miss it entirely and not
actually realize that you've covered it
at all I know that sounds really silly
and you might not think that you'll do
this but I thought that I'd never do
that and then it came to exam season I
look through my chemistry specification
and I realised there were a few things
that I couldn't even remember going over
keeping the specification is really
really important and what I would
recommend is color coding as you go
through so if you found something tricky
when you learnt it the first time then
color it in red on your specification so
that you can easily come back to it at
the end of the year or when you're
having an endo topic test and you can
see what you need to focus on the most
really treat our specification as a
checklist because this is what the exam
board wants from you
a levels especially science-based
subjects wedding chemistry RS and
English and Spanish ass and
science-based subjects are quite linear
in the sense that like there are
specific stuff that you need to know and
if you don't know that then you can't
get the grades you want
so trust the specifications so my fourth
tip relates again to science-based
subjects but I think this could also
apply to subjects like geography maybe
history
one thing I regretted not doing from the
beginning of year 12 but which I did
pick up at the beginning of year 13 was
making a note of every single question I
got wrong in a test like an end of topic
test or an exam practice paper so when I
got my paper back or when I marked it
myself online I would go through the
paper and I would write up every single
question that I got wrong and I had two
documents so I had questions that I got
wrong on one with all of the answers and
these ideal answers were taken from the
mark scheme and I made basically like
perfect answers that would have scorpy
full marks and then the second one was
exactly the same document but without
the answers just the questions so this
second document was an ongoing kind of
test for myself and every month I would
print it out and I would do the
questions so that I could make sure that
I was I was kind of learning from my
mistakes because a lot of the time in
science they will repeat questions
because there's only a limited number of
things that they can test you on equally
you might want to transfer everything to
flashcards so halfway through year 13 I
just started transferring some questions
I got wrong on tests that I found a bit
trickier these on flashcards so that I
could go through them more regularly so
my fifth tip refers to more
humanities-based subjects or English
extra reading is really important if you
want to get the a star-like kind of push
yourself past the a and get the star
extra reading is really really key going
the extra mile and writing answers which
slightly differentiate you from everyone
else like you're not just writing the
things that you've been made to learn in
class the things that you that are in
your textbook the things are on your
specification you're learning beyond
that and especially for English that's
really really important I can't stress
enough how important it is to read from
the beginning of the year because at the
end of the year on exam season comes
around you feel like oh no I really
should have done the read around
every single topic and come up with
unique pieces of knowledge that you can
put in your exam answers by was excuse
that you found yourself whether that's a
critical point whether that's a current
event story just number six one thing
that I did do and I did a lot more
consistently in year thirteen was having
an ideal essay for each of my our asset
topics so if every single one I would
have my ideal essay the one that would
school me full marks if I produced it in
an exam asked to go through it with my
teacher I'd ask him or her to market I'd
basically perfect my answer so that I
knew that I was kind of capable of
getting a top mark if I really committed
myself it helps you to see what a
perfect answer would look like obviously
you don't have to aim for full marks aim
for an a-star aim for an A basically
have an essay in your files in your
notes which is of the standard that you
would like to create in the exam like
kind of your ideal essay number seven is
less of a study tip flight paths are a
thing this is something I wish I had
known and even though people told me it
I didn't kind of properly take it on the
back I wanted to push myself to go into
my a-levels and be getting top grades on
my first essays that I submitted on my
first tests that I did and that puts so
much pressure on myself it's only in
retrospect that I can really recognize
that but yes I did get top marks in my
first exams and essays that I did in
year 12 but I put so much pressure on
myself to do that and I worked myself so
hard and I don't think that was the best
idea I don't think that was the best
thing for me obviously perseverance is
important and resilience is important
and you should push yourself to be the
very best student you can be but
remember that year 12 isn't your most
useful year and you've just come out of
you eleven which is obviously super
super stressful so just be kind to
yourself it's okay not to get an a-star
straightaway the jump from GCSE you can
be really really big and I know the new
GCSE use are trying to ridge that gap a
tiny bit more but a levels are still
tough let yourself recognize that it's
okay to struggle it's okay to find it
difficult don't put as much pressure on
yourself as I put on myself um tip
number
and I believe I think it's Evan talk to
your teachers
so not only ask them for help and know
that it's okay to ask them for help
don't feel embarrassed to ask
I thought embarrassed to ask when I was
in year 12 and that really was quite
stupid but similarly at the same time
ask your teacher for extra reading ask
your teacher for extra resources my
teachers were so safe facilitating to
this when I said you know oh like I'm
really enduring the content but I kind
of want to go further and make this more
challenging for myself they really
facilitated me in that your teachers
probably enjoy the subjects that they're
teaching that's one of the main reasons
that you would teach that subject to the
page to another subject ask your teacher
for actual resources
I was always chatting with my English
and IRS teachers about you know like
current events stories and saying is
there anything you could recommend to
have any books you can recommend it was
so great because I came away with like a
much more well-rounded view of the
subjects and I also learnt so much for
me informed my answers indirectly
because I was more aware I truly believe
that education should be fun and school
should be funny you should enjoy
learning and thus one of the most
obvious ways that you can do that sit
when you find something interesting ask
your teachers okay next
keep a revision folder for all of your
notes this isn't actually an actual one
this is a folder of creative writing
these kinds of folders I find really
really helpful did this in your 13 I
kept all of my notes all of my revision
resources for each of my subjects in one
of these and so I had three in total it
was so great because I could take these
to school I didn't have to bring big
bulky lever arch folders so I'd keep
packed his papers in there which I could
do it if my teacher said 20 minutes a
free study here it was just really
helpful and also have a folder for each
of them even if it doesn't feel like
you're gonna fill up the whole thing
because I shared one between RS and
English and then I ended up filling it
up and transferring all of the paperwork
took such a long another thing I'd
recommend is keeping all of your old
past papers I like to keep mine in like
one of the box folders this is
especially relevant for chemistry so
like science based subjects halle coding
how well you did on it so this is
something I wish I'd done in year 13
because I think I would have been able
to better see which papers I should have
redone when I'd finished all of the ones
that were on the IQA website if you did
badly on it just color coding in orange
that you can come back and read
that paper Italy today and lastly this
is just a quick tip but if you do
English or Spanish you know something
when you're studying literature then I
recommend reading a comparison text in
the first term it can't feel like you've
got so much time ahead of you and yes
you do have a lot of time until your
exams but it's only one year or two
years and your first term is the least
busy of them so I think this is the best
time to do your comparative reading if
you're gonna do any and I think reading
of comparison tax can be really useful I
found it really helpful when I was doing
comparisons and English two of
Fitzgerald's novels like Gatsby and
Tender is the night I already have my
comparative notes which I could then go
back to the rest of the year and I could
really develop my skills in terms of
integrating that into my essays I was
more used to integrating comparative
analysis at the end of the year then I
might have been if I hadn't been
practicing that all the way through so
they are my top tips things I wish I'd
done from the beginning of year 12 or 13
I hope that these tips are helpful
they're quite miscellaneous and they're
quite like all over the place but
they're just little bits that I learnt
and which I hope come in useful for you
if you're going into year 12 or 13 the
thing that I really think is important
to remember though with six form is
honestly these are the best years of
your school life I loved set form
everyone so much more mature at my
school the classes were a bit smaller as
you're older you get on better with your
teachers you like more mutual the
relationship that you have the subject
content is it's kind of more in depth so
more interesting and because you're only
studying a few subjects you have the
opportunity to really dive deep into
these subjects all in all its forms
amazing and really enjoy it I enjoy all
aspects of it enjoy your classes but
enjoy the social side make your final
years at school or if you're in a thirty
like your very final year of school
enjoy it's my main piece of advice make
the most of safe home it's it's it's
hard but it can be really really good
fun yeah thank you so much for watching
this video good luck for year twelve or
thirteen and I hope that you have a
productive
[Music]